ejson2env(1) -- extract environment variables from an ejson file
===========================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`ejson2env` [`--keydir` <path>] <filename>

## DESCRIPTION

`ejson2env` is a utility for extracting environment variables from ejson
files.

See ejson(5) for more information on the `ejson` file format, and read on for a
workflow example.

## OPTIONS

  * `--keydir`=<path>:
    Path to directory containing private keys. Defaults to `/opt/ejson/keys`.
    Setting `EJSON_KEYDIR` will also set this value, with lower precedence.

  * `--key-from-stdin`:
    If set, assumes that the key that decrypts the passed ejson file was 
    passed in on standard input.

## WORKFLOW

### 1: Add environment variables to an ejson file

If you do not have an existing ejson file, ejson(1) describes how to create
private and public keys and create the initial ejson file.

To add the environment variables, add a new key called "environment" at the 
top level of the ejson file. 

For example, adding a `DB_PASSWORD` environment variable would require 
creating an `environment` object, with a `DB_PASSWORD` key value pair:

```
{
  "_public_key": "<key>",
  "environment": {
    "DB_PASSWORD": "1234password"
  }
}
```

### 4: Encrypt the file

Running `ejson encrypt` will then encrypt the contents of the `environment`
object, as it does for other variables. 

For example, running `ejson encrypt` against our example would generate 
something similar to:

```
{
  "_public_key": "<key>",
  "environment": {
    "DB_PASSWORD": "EJ[1:OrYT5AaCMOtskq44s2rIzZnoeWW9y5ciYEiV8FWAORc=:vlYfnSz0wuGHKXZ1yFqVnFP5PYrTNyMs:UR5ZeX7BnDWeoAjiy1Rp/nTDWsmmYtJrWmI=]"
  }
}
```

### 5: Export the environment variables

`ejson2env` <filename> will write the export commands to standard output. 

The following output would be generated for our example:

```
export DB_PASSWORD=1234password
``` 

You can then export them to the shell environment by calling the command
surrounded by backticks. 

For example:

```
#!/bin/sh

`ejson2env /config/secrets.production.ejson`

echo $DB_PASSWORD
```

## BUGS

Please file bugs at https://github.com/Shopify/ejson

## COPYRIGHT

ejson2env is copyright (C) 2018 Shopify under MIT license.

## SEE ALSO

ejson(5) ejson-encrypt(1) ejson-decrypt(1) ejson-keygen(1)
